# Using A Configuration File

One if the challenges to creating reusable code for all our students
is giving them dozens of example programs that can all run
on their specific hardware configuration where they might
have changed the pins on their LEDs and sensors.  If
we hard-code the pin numbers in each of the 20 example
programs the students would need to change each
of the 20 programs to get their code to work.

The way to solve this problem is to isolate all the pin numbers
in a single file called a ```config.py``` file.  By just editing
this single file, the entire set of 20 programs can now be used.

This may not be important for simple programs like our NeoPixel
labs that just have two numbers: a pin number and a number of pixels.
These numbers can be quickly changes with your text editor.  However, once
your projects has many pins like our Cytron Robots, making all these
changes can be time consuming and distracts from learning.

## Example Config File

Let's start out with a simple NeoPixel example that just has two numbers:
a NeoPixel Pin number and the number of pins.  Here is a sample configuration
file for this program:

```python config.py
NEOPIXEL_PIN = 0
NUMBER_PIXELS = 30
```

Now you can simply reference your config.py file and use the numbers after you
prefix the parameters with the "config." string:

```python
import config.py

NEOPIXEL_PIN = config.NEOPIXEL_PIN
NUMBER_PIXELS = config.NUMBER_PIXELS
```

Note that when a user opens this file they don't actually see the values of the pins.
If they are not aware of how `config.py` files are used they might not
know they have to change the `config.py` file.  So there are always tradeoffs.

Putting all your hardware configuration information in a separate file is called [abstraction](../glossary.md#abstraction)